README.md, before:

# 🏭 dwh-mixpanel

Stream queries from your data warehouse to events, profiles, groups, or lookup tables in Mixpanel... rETL style 💫.

No intermediate staging/storage required.

Supported Data Warehouses:

- [Google BigQuery](#bq)
- [AWS Athena](#athena)
- [Snowflake](#snowflake)

<div id="tldr"></div>

## 👔 tldr;

run the module, and provide a [configuration file](#config) as the first argument:

```bash
npx dwh-mixpanel ./myConfig.json
```

for help building a [configuration file](#config), run the module with no arguments:

```bash
npx dwh-mixpanel ./myConfig.json
```

**what next?**

- check out the [demo](#demo)
- learn about using the [cli](#cli)
- create an automated pipeline with a [module](#module)

<div id="demo"></div>

## 🍿 demo

todo

<div id="cli"></div>

### 👨‍💻️ cli

as stated in the [tldr](#tldr), if you run `dwh-mixpanel` with **no arguments** you get a CLI which helps you build a [configuration file](#config):

```bash
npx dwh-mixpanel
```

it looks like this:

<img src="https://aktunes.neocities.org/dwh-mixpanel/cliWalk-sm.gif" alt="cli walkthrough" width=400/>

at the end of this walkthrough, a JSON file will be saved to your current working directory; it will contain the details of what you typed into the CLI. the CLI will then ask you if you'd like to trigger a run.

once you have a configuration file, you can run (and _re-run_) that job by passing the configuration file as the first argument to this module:

```bash
npx dwh-mixpanel snowflake-mixpanel.json
```

as it runs, you'll get some console output as to the status of your job:

<img src="https://aktunes.neocities.org/dwh-mixpanel/go.gif" alt="demo" width=500/>

once the pipeline is complete, it will stash logs in the current working directory, and you can see your data in mixpanel!

**note:** if you will use this module frequently, consider a global install:

```
npm install --global dwh-mixpanel
```

and then you don't need the `npx`:

```
dwh-mixpanel ./myConfig.json
```

<div id="module"></div>

### 🔄 module <div id="module"></div>

`dwh-mixpanel` can also be used as a ESM module inside any node.js environment. this is useful for automation and scheduled syncs.

install it from `npm`:

```bash
npm install dwh-mixpanel
```

and then you use it as you would any other dependency:

```javascript
import dwhMp from "dwh-mixpanel";
```

`dwh-mixpanel` exports a single function, which takes in a single parameter - a [configuration object](#config).

this is the entry-point for the whole module:

```javascript
const myConfig = {
  dwh: "bigquery",
  sql: "SELECT * FROM EVENTS",
  //etc...
};

const bqToMpSummary = await dwhMp(myConfig);
```

the module returns a `summary` of the unload/load job, with statistics and logs about how many records were processed, throughput, and metadata from the warehouse.

```javascript
{
  mixpanel: {
    success: 100000,
    failed: 0,
    total: 100000,
    requests: 50,
    recordType: "event",
    duration: 15314,
    human: "15.314 seconds",
    retries: 0,
    version: "2.2.287",
    workers: 10,
    eps: 6529,
    rps: 3.265,
    responses: [],
    errors: [],
  },
  bigquery: {
    job: {
      //job infos
    },
    metadata: {
      //query metadata
    },
    schema: {
      //schema
    }
  }
}
```

<div id="config"></div>

### configuration

your configuration is an object (or JSON) with the following structure:

```javascript
{
	dwh: "", 		// warehouse name
	auth: {},		// warehouse auth details
	sql: "",		// a SQL query
	mappings: {},	// col headers → mixpanel fields
	mixpanel: {},	// mixpanel auth
	options: {},	// job options
	tags: {}		// arbitrary tags
}
```

you can find [examples](https://github.com/ak--47/dwh-mixpanel) in the repo for different warehouses. additionally, the module is typed using jsdoc, so you should have a good experience using it in your IDE:

<img src="https://aktunes.neocities.org/dwh-mixpanel/devxp.gif" alt="developer experience" width=500/>

here's a description of each of those keys (and values) mean

##### dwh

a string representing the data warehouse you're connecting too.

`bigquery`, `athena`, `snowflake`

##### auth

an object `{}` containing the service account/credentials to use when authenticating with the data warehouse.

each cloud warehouse has its _own_ method(s) of authenticating API calls, which usually consist of a username or public key and a password, secret, or private key.

to read more about the ways you can authenticate with a supported data warehouse, see [warehouse details](#warehouse)

##### sql

a valid SQL Query to run (as a job) in your data warehouse; this query will usually be in the form of a `SELECT {fields}` or `SELECT *` statement:

```SQL
SELECT
  eventName,
  user_id,
  timestamp,
  prop_a,
  prop_b,
  prop_c,
  rowId as insert_id
FROM
  "myProject.myDB.myTable"
WHERE
  env is "prod"
```

your SQL query should produce a **flat, non-nested table that has the fields and records you wish to stream to mixpanel**. your column headers can have any title; you will provide a mappings dictionary (detailed below) to describe how mixpanel should receive the fields.

**note:** property field labels can be retitled post-ingestion using [lexicon](https://help.mixpanel.com/hc/en-us/articles/360001307806-Lexicon-Overview#adding-or-changing-descriptions), mixpanel's data governance suite.

##### mappings

an object `{}` containing a map of columns headers to mixpanel property keys.

providing mappings is not a tedious task; mixpanel is a schemaless tool designed for semi-structured data, so **any column not explicitly mapped which is present in the table will become an event/user property key and value**.

the fields you must provide mappings for depend on the type of data you're importing:

**events** mappings

```javascript
{
  // REQUIRED
  'event_name_col': '', 	// column for event name
  'distinct_id_col': '', 	// column for uniquer user id
  'time_col': '', 		// column for event time
  // OPTIONAL
  'insert_id_col': '' 		// column for row id (deduplication)
}
```

note: `insert_id_col` is **required** when using `strict` mode

**user or group profiles** mappings

```javascript
{

// REQUIRED
 'distinct_id_col': '', // column for uniquer user id

// OPTIONAL
 'profileOperation': '', // the $set style operation to use
 'name_col': '', // column $name to use for the user/group profile
 'email_col': '', // column $email to use for the user/group profile
 'avatar_col': '', // column $email to use for the user/group profile
 'created_col': '', // column $created (timestamp) to use
 'phone_col': '', // column $phone to use for the user/group profile
 'latitude_col': '', // column $latitude to use for the user/group profile
 'longitude_col': '', // column $longitude to use for the user/group profile
 'ip_co': '' // column $ip to use for the user/group profile
}
```

**lookup tables** mappings

```javascript
{
// REQUIRED
 'lookup_col' : '' //the "join" column for the lookup table
//hint: ^ this is usually the first column in the table
}
```

the key to remember about `mappings` is that you a giving the module a guide to understand how to map fields from your warehouse to required fields for the different mixpanel data types.

here's an example:

```SQL
SELECT
 	insert_id, timestamp, action, uuid, theme, class
FROM
	mydnd.campaign.db
```

which produces this table:
| insert_id | timestamp | action | uuid | theme | class |
|-----------|-----------|--------|-------|-------|---------|
| abc-123 | 4:19 PM | attack | ak | dark | cleric |
| xyz-345 | 4:20 PM | defend | alice | light | bard |
| cba-678 | 4:20 PM | attack | bob | light | paladin |
| zyx-901 | 4:21 PM | sneak | eve | dark | rogue |

with this mapping:

```javascript
{
	event_name_col: 'action',
	distinct_id_col: 'uuid',
	time_col: 'timestamp',
	insert_id_col: 'insert_id'
}
```

then produces these events in mixpanel:

```javascript
[
  {
    event: "attack",
    properties: {
      distinct_id: "ak",
      time: 1234567890,
      $insert_id: "abc-123",
      theme: "dark",
      class: "cleric",
    }
  },
  {
    event: "defend",
    properties: {
      distinct_id: "alice",
      time: 1234577891,
      $insert_id: "xyz-345",
      theme: "light",
      class: "bard",
    }
  },
  //etc...
];
```

for more info on mixpanel's data structure, [see this deep-dive](https://developer.mixpanel.com/docs/data-structure-deep-dive#anatomy-of-an-event)

##### mixpanel

an object `{}` containing authentication details used to connect to your mixpanel project.

```javascript
{
	project_id: '',  			//your mixpanel project id
	type: 'event',				//type of record to import
	region: 'US',				//or EU

	//one of service details OR api secret is required
	service_account: '',  			//service account user name
	service_secret: '', 			//service account secret

	api_secret: '',				//project api secret [deprecated]


	//required for profiles
 	token: '', 				//mixpanel project token

	//required for groups
	groupKey: '',				//the group key for this group

	//required for lookup tables
	lookupTableId: ''			//the lookup table to replace
}
```

note: you can find most of these values in the **[your mixpanel project's settings](https://help.mixpanel.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004490503-Project-Settings)**

##### options

an object `{}` containing various options for the job.

```javascript
{
	logFile: 'myLog.txt', // local path to write log files to
 	verbose: true,  // display verbose console output
 	strict: false, // use strict mode when sending data to mixpanel
 	compress: false,  // gzip data before egress
 	workers: 20 // number of concurrent workers to make requests to mixpanel
}
```

the `workers` option is important because it governs concurrency, which can greatly affect throughput. best results are observed between 10-20 workers.

##### tags (optional)

an object `{}` containing arbitrary `key:value` string pairs that will be used to tag the data. this is particularly useful if this module is being used as part of an automated pipeline, and you wish to tag the data with `runIds` or some other reference value.

```javascript
{
	mixpanel: {
		type: "event"
	},
	tags: {
		"foo": "bar"
		// every event in mixpanel will have a {foo: 'bar'} prop
	}
}
```

this works on all record types:

```javascript
{
	mixpanel: {
		type: "user"
	},
	tags: {
		"baz": "qux"
		// every user profile updated will have a {baz: 'qux'} prop
	}
}
```

<div id="warehouse"></div>

### warehouse details

the data warehouse connectors used by this module are implemented as _middleware_, and therefore they have different authentication strategies and dependencies.

in most cases, `dwh-mixpanel` wraps the vendor SDKs of each warehouse with it's own API, so when passing `auth` params in your configuration, you can use any values that are supported by your warehouse, provided those credentials have the appropriate permissions.

below are details for the most commonly used authentication strategies in each supported warehouse, along with the permissions required to run a successful job. if you find an auth method or strategy that you need and is not supported for your warehouse, [please file an issue](https://github.com/ak--47/dwh-mixpanel/issues)

<div id="bq"></div>

##### BigQuery

most bigquery jobs will be authenticated with GCP [service accounts](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-accounts)

the service account will need the following permissions in bigquery AND on the specific dataset being queried:

- [`bigquery.jobs.create`](<https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/access-control#bigquery.dataViewer:~:text=Run%20jobs%20(including%20queries)%20within%20the%20project.>)
- [`bigquery.jobs.get`](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/access-control#bigquery.dataViewer:~:text=Get%20data%20and%20metadata%20on%20any%20job.1)
- [`bigquery.datasets.get`](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/access-control#bigquery.dataViewer:~:text=Get%20metadata%20about%20a%20dataset.)
- [`bigquery.tables.get	`](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/access-control#bigquery.dataViewer:~:text=out%20of%20BigQuery.-,bigquery.tables.get,-Get%20table%20metadata)
- [`bigquery.tables.getData`](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/access-control#bigquery.dataViewer:~:text=Get%20table%20data.%20This%20permission%20is%20required%20for%20querying%20table%20data.%0ATo%20get%20table%20metadata%2C%20you%20need%20bigquery.tables.get.)

in my experience, the `data viewer` + `bigquery job user` roles set together satisfies these cases; if a required permission is missing, the output will tell you what it is.

the typical fields used for auth are `project_id`, `private_key`, and `client_email`; `location` will need to be added manually based on the [region of your bigquery instance](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/locations):

```javascript
{
	dwh: "bigquery",
	auth : {
			"project_id": "my-gcp-project", //GCP project
			"client_email": "serviceAccount@email.com", //service acct email
			"private_key": "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\n...\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n",	// service account private key
			"location": "US" //bigquery location.. this is required!
		}
}
```

in most cases, you can [drop your exported JSON keys](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-accounts) into the `auth` param, and it will work.

<div id="snowflake"></div>

##### Snowflake

snowflake jobs with authenticate with a user name + password. note that 2FA is not currently supported in this module.

the fields used for auth are [`account`](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/admin-account-identifier.html) identifier, `username`, and `password`; you will also need to provide your [`warehouse`](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/show-warehouses.html) name, [`database`](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/show-databases.html) name, and table [`schema`](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/show-schemas.html). most of these values can be found in the UI or the SQL console.

```javascript
{
	dwh: "snowflake",
	auth : {
			"account": "foobar.us-central1.gcp", // your snowflake identifier
			"username": "",
			"password": "",
			"database": "PROD1", // database to use
			"schema": "PUBLIC", // schema to use
			"warehouse": "COMPUTE_WH" //warehouse to use
		}
}
```

no special permissions are required for snowflake - only that the user/pass you entered can view and query the dataset.

<div id="athena"></div>

##### Athena

to query athena from this module, your user account (or service account) will need permission to take the following actions in **athena**:

- [`StartQueryExecution`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/athena/latest/APIReference/API_StartQueryExecution.html)
- [`GetQueryExecution`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/athena/latest/APIReference/API_GetQueryExecution.html)
- [`GetQueryResults`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/athena/latest/APIReference/API_GetQueryResults.html)
- [`GetQueryRuntimeStatistics`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/athena/latest/APIReference/API_GetQueryRuntimeStatistics.html)

since athena _depends on_ **S3**, your account will _also_ need access to the following actions in **S3**:

- [`GetObject`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_GetObject.html)
- [`DeleteObject`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_DeleteObject.html)

the **S3** bucket you assign permissions to should be the same one **athena** uses for storage; you can see this in the athena UI:

<img src="https://aktunes.neocities.org/dwh-mixpanel/athenaLocation.png" alt="athena storage location" width=300/>

**note:** all queries made to athena are stored as CSV files in S3; this module uses the `DeleteObject` action to delete the materialized CSV after the data is imported into mixpanel.

most AWS accounts can be [setup for programmatic access](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-sec-cred-types.html#access-keys-and-secret-access-keys) using an `accessKeyId` and a `secretAccessKey`; you'll also need to add the `region` of your S3 instance.

```javascript
{
	dwh: "athena",
	auth : {
			"accessKeyId": "",
			"secretAccessKey": "",
			"region": "us-east-2" //note this is important!
		}
}
```

<div id="env"></div>

### 💾 environment variables

if you would prefer to store your authentication details as **environment variables** or in an `.env` file, you may do so. this module will find those values **provided they are correctly named**.

here is a sample of how environment variables can be used for mixpanel:
```env
MP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT=myServiceAcct
MP_SERVICE_SECRET=myServiceSecret
MP_API_SECRET=myAPISecret
MP_TOKEN=myToken
MP_LOOKUP_TABLE=myLookupTableId
```

for the warehouse, use the key `DWH_AUTH` and for the value use stringified JSON that you would pass to `auth` in the [configuration file](#config): 

```env
DWH_AUTH='{
		"project_id": "ak-internal-tool-1613096051700",
		"private_key": "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\n...\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n",
		"client_email": "mySerAcct@iam.google.com",		
		"location": "US"
	}'
```

that's it for now. have fun!

Commit message:

allow ADC for BQ
bigquery supports application default credentials... we do too now!

README.md, after:

# 🏭 dwh-mixpanel

Stream queries from your data warehouse to events, profiles, groups, or lookup tables in Mixpanel... rETL style 💫.

No intermediate staging/storage required.

Supported Data Warehouses:

- [Google BigQuery](#bq)
- [AWS Athena](#athena)
- [Snowflake](#snowflake)

<div id="tldr"></div>

## 👔 tldr;

run the module, and provide a [configuration file](#config) as the first argument:

```bash
npx dwh-mixpanel ./myConfig.json
```

for help building a [configuration file](#config), run the module with no arguments:

```bash
npx dwh-mixpanel ./myConfig.json
```

**what next?**

- check out the [demo](#demo)
- learn about using the [cli](#cli)
- create an automated pipeline with a [module](#module)

<div id="demo"></div>

## 🍿 demo

todo

<div id="cli"></div>

### 👨‍💻️ cli

as stated in the [tldr](#tldr), if you run `dwh-mixpanel` with **no arguments** you get a CLI which helps you build a [configuration file](#config):

```bash
npx dwh-mixpanel
```

it looks like this:

<img src="https://aktunes.neocities.org/dwh-mixpanel/cliWalk-sm.gif" alt="cli walkthrough" width=400/>

at the end of this walkthrough, a JSON file will be saved to your current working directory; it will contain the details of what you typed into the CLI. the CLI will then ask you if you'd like to trigger a run.

once you have a configuration file, you can run (and _re-run_) that job by passing the configuration file as the first argument to this module:

```bash
npx dwh-mixpanel snowflake-mixpanel.json
```

as it runs, you'll get some console output as to the status of your job:

<img src="https://aktunes.neocities.org/dwh-mixpanel/go.gif" alt="demo" width=500/>

once the pipeline is complete, it will stash logs in the current working directory, and you can see your data in mixpanel!

**note:** if you will use this module frequently, consider a global install:

```
npm install --global dwh-mixpanel
```

and then you don't need the `npx`:

```
dwh-mixpanel ./myConfig.json
```

<div id="module"></div>

### 🔄 module <div id="module"></div>

`dwh-mixpanel` can also be used as a ESM module inside any node.js environment. this is useful for automation and scheduled syncs.

install it from `npm`:

```bash
npm install dwh-mixpanel
```

and then you use it as you would any other dependency:

```javascript
import dwhMp from "dwh-mixpanel";
```

`dwh-mixpanel` exports a single function, which takes in a single parameter - a [configuration object](#config).

this is the entry-point for the whole module:

```javascript
const myConfig = {
  dwh: "bigquery",
  sql: "SELECT * FROM EVENTS",
  //etc...
};

const bqToMpSummary = await dwhMp(myConfig);
```

the module returns a `summary` of the unload/load job, with statistics and logs about how many records were processed, throughput, and metadata from the warehouse.

```javascript
{
  mixpanel: {
    success: 100000,
    failed: 0,
    total: 100000,
    requests: 50,
    recordType: "event",
    duration: 15314,
    human: "15.314 seconds",
    retries: 0,
    version: "2.2.287",
    workers: 10,
    eps: 6529,
    rps: 3.265,
    responses: [],
    errors: [],
  },
  bigquery: {
    job: {
      //job infos
    },
    metadata: {
      //query metadata
    },
    schema: {
      //schema
    }
  }
}
```

<div id="config"></div>

### configuration

your configuration is an object (or JSON) with the following structure:

```javascript
{
	dwh: "", 		// warehouse name
	auth: {},		// warehouse auth details
	sql: "",		// a SQL query
	mappings: {},	// col headers → mixpanel fields
	mixpanel: {},	// mixpanel auth
	options: {},	// job options
	tags: {}		// arbitrary tags
}
```

you can find [examples](https://github.com/ak--47/dwh-mixpanel) in the repo for different warehouses. additionally, the module is typed using jsdoc, so you should have a good experience using it in your IDE:

<img src="https://aktunes.neocities.org/dwh-mixpanel/devxp.gif" alt="developer experience" width=500/>

here's a description of each of those keys (and values) mean

##### dwh

a string representing the data warehouse you're connecting too.

`bigquery`, `athena`, `snowflake`

##### auth

an object `{}` containing the service account/credentials to use when authenticating with the data warehouse.

each cloud warehouse has its _own_ method(s) of authenticating API calls, which usually consist of a username or public key and a password, secret, or private key.

to read more about the ways you can authenticate with a supported data warehouse, see [warehouse details](#warehouse)

##### sql

a valid SQL Query to run (as a job) in your data warehouse; this query will usually be in the form of a `SELECT {fields}` or `SELECT *` statement:

```SQL
SELECT
  eventName,
  user_id,
  timestamp,
  prop_a,
  prop_b,
  prop_c,
  rowId as insert_id
FROM
  "myProject.myDB.myTable"
WHERE
  env is "prod"
```

your SQL query should produce a **flat, non-nested table that has the fields and records you wish to stream to mixpanel**. your column headers can have any title; you will provide a mappings dictionary (detailed below) to describe how mixpanel should receive the fields.

**note:** property field labels can be retitled post-ingestion using [lexicon](https://help.mixpanel.com/hc/en-us/articles/360001307806-Lexicon-Overview#adding-or-changing-descriptions), mixpanel's data governance suite.

##### mappings

an object `{}` containing a map of columns headers to mixpanel property keys.

providing mappings is not a tedious task; mixpanel is a schemaless tool designed for semi-structured data, so **any column not explicitly mapped which is present in the table will become an event/user property key and value**.

the fields you must provide mappings for depend on the type of data you're importing:

**events** mappings

```javascript
{
  // REQUIRED
  'event_name_col': '', 	// column for event name
  'distinct_id_col': '', 	// column for uniquer user id
  'time_col': '', 		// column for event time
  // OPTIONAL
  'insert_id_col': '' 		// column for row id (deduplication)
}
```

note: `insert_id_col` is **required** when using `strict` mode

**user or group profiles** mappings

```javascript
{

// REQUIRED
 'distinct_id_col': '', // column for uniquer user id

// OPTIONAL
 'profileOperation': '', // the $set style operation to use
 'name_col': '', // column $name to use for the user/group profile
 'email_col': '', // column $email to use for the user/group profile
 'avatar_col': '', // column $email to use for the user/group profile
 'created_col': '', // column $created (timestamp) to use
 'phone_col': '', // column $phone to use for the user/group profile
 'latitude_col': '', // column $latitude to use for the user/group profile
 'longitude_col': '', // column $longitude to use for the user/group profile
 'ip_co': '' // column $ip to use for the user/group profile
}
```

**lookup tables** mappings

```javascript
{
// REQUIRED
 'lookup_col' : '' //the "join" column for the lookup table
//hint: ^ this is usually the first column in the table
}
```

the key to remember about `mappings` is that you a giving the module a guide to understand how to map fields from your warehouse to required fields for the different mixpanel data types.

here's an example:

```SQL
SELECT
 	insert_id, timestamp, action, uuid, theme, class
FROM
	mydnd.campaign.db
```

which produces this table:
| insert_id | timestamp | action | uuid | theme | class |
|-----------|-----------|--------|-------|-------|---------|
| abc-123 | 4:19 PM | attack | ak | dark | cleric |
| xyz-345 | 4:20 PM | defend | alice | light | bard |
| cba-678 | 4:20 PM | attack | bob | light | paladin |
| zyx-901 | 4:21 PM | sneak | eve | dark | rogue |

with this mapping:

```javascript
{
	event_name_col: 'action',
	distinct_id_col: 'uuid',
	time_col: 'timestamp',
	insert_id_col: 'insert_id'
}
```

then produces these events in mixpanel:

```javascript
[
  {
    event: "attack",
    properties: {
      distinct_id: "ak",
      time: 1234567890,
      $insert_id: "abc-123",
      theme: "dark",
      class: "cleric",
    }
  },
  {
    event: "defend",
    properties: {
      distinct_id: "alice",
      time: 1234577891,
      $insert_id: "xyz-345",
      theme: "light",
      class: "bard",
    }
  },
  //etc...
];
```

for more info on mixpanel's data structure, [see this deep-dive](https://developer.mixpanel.com/docs/data-structure-deep-dive#anatomy-of-an-event)

##### mixpanel

an object `{}` containing authentication details used to connect to your mixpanel project.

```javascript
{
	project_id: '',  			//your mixpanel project id
	type: 'event',				//type of record to import
	region: 'US',				//or EU

	//one of service details OR api secret is required
	service_account: '',  			//service account user name
	service_secret: '', 			//service account secret

	api_secret: '',				//project api secret [deprecated]


	//required for profiles
 	token: '', 				//mixpanel project token

	//required for groups
	groupKey: '',				//the group key for this group

	//required for lookup tables
	lookupTableId: ''			//the lookup table to replace
}
```

note: you can find most of these values in the **[your mixpanel project's settings](https://help.mixpanel.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004490503-Project-Settings)**

##### options

an object `{}` containing various options for the job.

```javascript
{
	logFile: 'myLog.txt', // local path to write log files to
 	verbose: true,  // display verbose console output
 	strict: false, // use strict mode when sending data to mixpanel
 	compress: false,  // gzip data before egress
 	workers: 20 // number of concurrent workers to make requests to mixpanel
}
```

the `workers` option is important because it governs concurrency, which can greatly affect throughput. best results are observed between 10-20 workers.

##### tags (optional)

an object `{}` containing arbitrary `key:value` string pairs that will be used to tag the data. this is particularly useful if this module is being used as part of an automated pipeline, and you wish to tag the data with `runIds` or some other reference value.

```javascript
{
	mixpanel: {
		type: "event"
	},
	tags: {
		"foo": "bar"
		// every event in mixpanel will have a {foo: 'bar'} prop
	}
}
```

this works on all record types:

```javascript
{
	mixpanel: {
		type: "user"
	},
	tags: {
		"baz": "qux"
		// every user profile updated will have a {baz: 'qux'} prop
	}
}
```

<div id="warehouse"></div>

### warehouse details

the data warehouse connectors used by this module are implemented as _middleware_, and therefore they have different authentication strategies and dependencies.

in most cases, `dwh-mixpanel` wraps the vendor SDKs of each warehouse with it's own API, so when passing `auth` params in your configuration, you can use any values that are supported by your warehouse, provided those credentials have the appropriate permissions.

below are details for the most commonly used authentication strategies in each supported warehouse, along with the permissions required to run a successful job. if you find an auth method or strategy that you need and is not supported for your warehouse, [please file an issue](https://github.com/ak--47/dwh-mixpanel/issues)

<div id="bq"></div>

##### BigQuery

most bigquery jobs will be authenticated with GCP [service accounts](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-accounts)

the service account will need the following permissions in bigquery AND on the specific dataset being queried:

- [`bigquery.jobs.create`](<https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/access-control#bigquery.dataViewer:~:text=Run%20jobs%20(including%20queries)%20within%20the%20project.>)
- [`bigquery.jobs.get`](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/access-control#bigquery.dataViewer:~:text=Get%20data%20and%20metadata%20on%20any%20job.1)
- [`bigquery.datasets.get`](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/access-control#bigquery.dataViewer:~:text=Get%20metadata%20about%20a%20dataset.)
- [`bigquery.tables.get	`](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/access-control#bigquery.dataViewer:~:text=out%20of%20BigQuery.-,bigquery.tables.get,-Get%20table%20metadata)
- [`bigquery.tables.getData`](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/access-control#bigquery.dataViewer:~:text=Get%20table%20data.%20This%20permission%20is%20required%20for%20querying%20table%20data.%0ATo%20get%20table%20metadata%2C%20you%20need%20bigquery.tables.get.)

in my experience, the `data viewer` + `bigquery job user` roles set together satisfies these cases; if a required permission is missing, the output will tell you what it is.

the typical fields used for auth are `project_id`, `private_key`, and `client_email`; `location` will need to be added manually based on the [region of your bigquery instance](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/locations):

```javascript
{
	dwh: "bigquery",
	auth : {
			"project_id": "my-gcp-project", //GCP project
			"client_email": "serviceAccount@email.com", //service acct email
			"private_key": "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\n...\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n",	// service account private key
			"location": "US" //bigquery location.. this is required!
		}
}
```

in most cases, you can [drop your exported JSON keys](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-accounts) into the `auth` param, and it will work.

###### ADC Authentication

if you are running `dwh-mixpanel` from your local computer, and **you _do not_ have IAM access in GCP to create service accounts**, but you _do_ have user-level access to the datasets in BigQuery, you can use **[Application Default Credentials (ADC)](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/provide-credentials-adc#local-dev)** which leverages _your_ GCP account to authenticate with bigQuery's APIs.

the general steps here are:
- install the [`gcloud` CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install) and [initialize it](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/init)
```bash
gcloud init
```
- create [a credential file](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/provide-credentials-adc#local-dev)
```bash
gcloud auth application-default login
```
- set your [configuration file's](#config) `auth` param to an empty object `{}`
```javascript
{
	"dwh": "bigquery",
	"auth": {},
	"sql": "SELECT * FROM FOO"
}
```
- run `dwh-mixpanel` with your updated [configuration file](#config):
```bash
npx dwh-mixpanel ./bigquery-mixpanel
```

<div id="snowflake"></div>

##### Snowflake

snowflake jobs with authenticate with a user name + password.

the fields used for auth are [`account`](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/admin-account-identifier.html) identifier, `username`, and `password`; you will also need to provide your [`warehouse`](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/show-warehouses.html) name, [`database`](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/show-databases.html) name, and table [`schema`](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/show-schemas.html). most of these values can be found in the UI or the SQL console.

```javascript
{
	dwh: "snowflake",
	auth : {
			"account": "foobar.us-central1.gcp", // your snowflake identifier
			"username": "",
			"password": "",
			"database": "PROD1", // database to use
			"schema": "PUBLIC", // schema to use
			"warehouse": "COMPUTE_WH" //warehouse to use
		}
}
```

no special permissions are required for snowflake - only that the user/pass you entered can view and query the dataset.

note: 2FA with Snowflake is _not_ currently supported in this module.

<div id="athena"></div>

##### Athena

to query athena from this module, your user account (or service account) will need permission to take the following actions in **athena**:

- [`StartQueryExecution`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/athena/latest/APIReference/API_StartQueryExecution.html)
- [`GetQueryExecution`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/athena/latest/APIReference/API_GetQueryExecution.html)
- [`GetQueryResults`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/athena/latest/APIReference/API_GetQueryResults.html)
- [`GetQueryRuntimeStatistics`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/athena/latest/APIReference/API_GetQueryRuntimeStatistics.html)

since athena _depends on_ **S3**, your account will _also_ need access to the following actions in **S3**:

- [`GetObject`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_GetObject.html)
- [`DeleteObject`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_DeleteObject.html)

the **S3** bucket you assign permissions to should be the same one **athena** uses for storage; you can see this in the athena UI:

<img src="https://aktunes.neocities.org/dwh-mixpanel/athenaLocation.png" alt="athena storage location" width=300/>

**note:** all queries made to athena are stored as CSV files in S3; this module uses the `DeleteObject` action to delete the materialized CSV after the data is imported into mixpanel.

most AWS accounts can be [setup for programmatic access](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-sec-cred-types.html#access-keys-and-secret-access-keys) using an `accessKeyId` and a `secretAccessKey`; you'll also need to add the `region` of your S3 instance.

```javascript
{
	dwh: "athena",
	auth : {
			"accessKeyId": "",
			"secretAccessKey": "",
			"region": "us-east-2" //note this is important!
		}
}
```

<div id="env"></div>

### 💾 environment variables

if you would prefer to store your authentication details as **environment variables** or in an `.env` file, you may do so. this module will find those values **provided they are correctly named**.

here is a sample of how environment variables can be used for mixpanel:
```env
MP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT=myServiceAcct
MP_SERVICE_SECRET=myServiceSecret
MP_API_SECRET=myAPISecret
MP_TOKEN=myToken
MP_LOOKUP_TABLE=myLookupTableId
```

for the warehouse, use the key `DWH_AUTH` and for the value use stringified JSON that you would pass to `auth` in the [configuration file](#config): 

```env
DWH_AUTH='{
		"project_id": "ak-internal-tool-1613096051700",
		"private_key": "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\n...\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n",
		"client_email": "mySerAcct@iam.google.com",		
		"location": "US"
	}'
```

that's it for now. have fun!
